1. What do you think?
I think this is pretty spot on. Gender neutral language has always been very important, even more so now because of the increasing number of people coming out as transexual. A really good gender neutral pronoun still does't really exist though. People have tried to push "ze", I personally prefer "xe", but so far neither have really made it into the mainstream. This whole debate will be so much easier when a society finally settles on a neutral pronoun. And you will never again be faced with that awkward situation of seeing a baby and nervously saying, "awhh, h--he(??)'s so cute?" and having the mother snap, "SHE'S a girl, ACTUALLY". (Also, there's no winning that situation, because she will be just as angry if you refer to her beloved baby as "it").

2. Do you make an effort to use gender neutral language?
Yes definitely, although some times more than others. in situations where I do know the gender for certain, and there is no ambiguity, I have no trepidation just saying "She will do this" or "His latte". But in any scenario where I am unsure, or am addressing a mix of genders, I always use non gender-specific wording.
 
3. What do you think when you hear non-gender-neutral language?
It makes me a little uncomfortable. I had an interesting experience with gender-based double standards recently, it was an awkward moment with my boss. He calls me darling sometimes, which I actually find kinda sweet, and I have told him before that I think it's cute. But then I overheard him calling a female co-worker "darling" and it immediately made me feel uncomfortable. (I know what you're thinking, and no, it wasn't just  jealousy). So I took him aside and quietly explained that it's okay for him to call me darling, because it's just an affectionate little thing, but when he calls a woman darling it just comes across as kind of misogynistic. Even though it would never occur to him that he was being condescending, it definitely sounded that way when you hear it out loud. He was agreeable, and said "okay", but I don't think he actually saw the problem. He probably thought I was just being overly PC.